coi la alis	Hello , Alice . 	Hi , Alice !
do mo	What are you doing ? 	How are you ?
mi bredi lo ka tavla	I &apos;m ready to talk . 	I &apos;m ready to talk .
ma tcima ca lo bavlamdei	Who weather tomorrow . 	What will be the weather tomorrow ?
lo solri sei mi pacna	I hope the sun . 	It &apos;ll be sunny , I hope .
co'o	See you . 	Goodbye .
re'i	re'i 	Listening .
je'u i plise	Yes , apple . 	Yes . It is an apple .
xu do viska lo tarmi be le plise	Do you see the form of the apple . 	Can you see the form of the apple ?
xu do jinvi lo du'u le plise ca makcu	Do you think that the apples are ripe . 	Do you think that the apple is ripe ?
ua xutla	Oh , soft . 	Oh , it is smooth .
panci pei	smell ? 	What about the smell ?
lo flora cu panci	The flower is scent . 	It smells of flowers .
oi nai lo kukte cu tasta	Oh , tasty is taste 	Yum , it tastes sweet .
ma pu fasnu	What happened ? 	What happened ?
xu do cortu	Do you . 	Do you feel pain ?
na ckape	not dangerous . 	It &apos;s not dangerous .
doi la alis do cliva e'o sai	Alice , you leave moment , please . 	Alice , please , return immediately !
lo sance be ma	The sound of ? 	A sound of what ?
ca ti mi ganse lo lenku	Now I sense cold . 	Now I feel cold .
mi viska lo plise	I see the apple . 	I see an apple .
le plise cu se tarmi lo cukla	The apple has round . 	The apple is round .
le plise cu skari lo xunre	The apple is colored red . 	The apple is colored red .
mi tirna lo sance be lo palta poi ca'o porpi	I can hear the sound of the plate breaking . 	I hear the sound of a plate that is falling .
mi tirna lo cladu	I can hear the loud 	I hear something loud .
mi tirna lo tonga be lo palta poi farlu	I can hear the tonga of the dishes that fall . 	I hear the tone of the plate falling down .
lo zgike	music . 	A music .
lo plise poi farlu	The apple fall . 	An apple that has fallen down .
mi sumne lo panci be lo za'u flora	I can smell the scent of flowers . 	I smell the odor of flowers .
le plise cu se panci lo za'u flora	The apple is smells These flowers . 	The apple smells of flowers .
mi smaka lo tasta be lo plise	I tasted the taste of the apple . 	I taste the taste of the apple .
mi palpi lo plise	I touch the apple . 	I palpate , touch-feel the apple .
le plise cu se sefta lo xutla	The apple is is soft . 	The apple has a smooth surface .
mi cortu lo cidni	I have a knees . 	My knee hurts .
mi ganse lo tarmi be lo plise	I sense form of an apple . 	I sense the form of an apple .
ti xunre	This is red . 	This is red .
ti skari lo ciblu	This is the color of the blood . 	This has the color of blood .
lo solri cu simlu lo ka narju	The sun is looks orange . 	The sun seems to be orange .
lo pezli be lo tricu cu crino	leaves of the tree is green . 	Leaves of trees are green .
mi catlu lo ninmu noi dasni lo zirpu taxfu	I see a woman wearing a purple clothes . 	I look at a woman who wears a violet dress .
lo gusni be fi lo solri pu carmi	The light the sun was shining 	The light from the Sun was intense .
ma nuzba	What &apos;s up ? 	What are the news ?
mi steba lo nu lo bruna be mi co'a speni lo nixli	I frustrated of my brother married a girl . 	I am frustrated that my brother gets married a girl .
xu do na gleki lo nu le bruna co'a speni	Are you not happy of the brothers gets married ? 	You are not happy that the gets married ?
le nixli cu pindi	The girl is poor . 	The girl is poor .
mi na kakne lo ka ciksi	I can &apos;t explanation . 	I am not able to explain .
la'a do kanpe lo nu le nixli na prami le bruna	You probably expect to the girl doesn &apos;t love the brother . 	Probably you expect that she doesn &apos;t like the brother .
ku'i le bruna cu cisma ca ro ka tavla le nixli	But the brother is smiling at all to talk about the girl . 	But the brother smiles every time he talks to her .
mi kucli lo nu le nixli cu prami le bruna	I am to the girl is love the brother . 	I wonder whether the girl likes the brother .
ko surla	Be relax . 	Relax !
ku'i mi ganse lo nu lenku	But I feeling cold . 	But I feel cold .
je'u	Yes . 	Yes .
e'u do klama lo mikce	You go to the doctor . 	I suggest you go to a doctor .
mi sruma lo nu mi bilma fi la zukam	I think it &apos;d be I cold 	I assume that I have a cold .
ki'e	Thank you . 	Thanks .
mi pu darxi lo stedu e lo zunle xance	I hit the head and the left hand . 	I hit the head and the left hand .
ku'i lo pritu xance na cortu	But the right hand don &apos;t hurt . 	But the right hand doesn &apos;t hurt .
mi viska le jamfu i ku'i mi na viska lo degji be le jamfu	I see the feet , but I don &apos;t see the fingers of the foot . 	I can see the feet . But I don &apos;t see its toes .
ti du la Alis	This is Tom must 	This is Alice .
pluka fa lo ka penmi do	pleased to meet you . 	Pleasure to meet you .
ki'e	Thank you . 	Thanks .
le re verba cu panzi mi	The two children is my child . 	The two children are my offspring .
la karl cu du le bersa	Carl is the son . 	Karl is the son .
ie	I agree . 	Yeah .
sa'e mi se tunba lo pa bruna e lo pa mensi	To be precise , I Sibling one brother and a sister . 	To be precise , I have a brother and a sister .
lo lanzu be do cu barda	The family of you are big . 	Your family is large .
mi co'a speni la suzan	I got married suzan . 	I married Susan .
ue	Huh ? 	Wow !
ie	I agree . 	Yeah .
ma pu jdima le karce	Who was &apos;s the price of the car . 	What was the price of the car ?
mi pu vecnu lo laldo karce pe mi lo pendo be mi	I was sell old my car my friend . 	I sold an old car of mine to my friend .
ma stuzi lo zdani be do	Where is a house of you . 	What is the location of your home ?
mi se zdani lo nurma	I live in the country ? 	I live in the country .
je'e	You &apos;re welcome . 	I see .
mi xabju ne'a lo zarci	I live near the market . 	I live near a shop .
